Trakouri Roberson
CS 210 Programming Languages 
Prof. Rissover
3/2/2024

---
title: "**CS 210 Module Eight Journal**"
---

# **The summary of the Project**

The Airgead Banking Project piqued my curiosity throughout this
semester. Designed to assist consumers in analyzing their investments,
this C++ program computes interest and shows year-end balances. Users of
the software may input crucial financial information such as their
initial investment, monthly deposit, yearly interest rate, and
investment length. These inputs enable it to provide comprehensive
financial reports showing investment growth over time---both with and
without monthly payments. This project shows my capacity for precise
financial computations, clear, user-friendly output formatting design,
and well-structured, understandable C++ code implementation.

**What I did well**

This project provided me with the opportunity to demonstrate my ability
to write clear, neat, and organized C++ code that adheres to the highest
standards in software development. By breaking down difficult financial
computations into reasonable chunks using functions, I improved code
maintainability and readability. I also used a simple and understandable
output style to guarantee that financial reports made sense. Using
appropriate variable names, comments, and documentation helped to better
clarify the software so that it may be easily accessible for the next
changes or improvements. Key strengths of my work on this project were
generally my meticulous approach to code organization, effective
handling of user input, and meaningful presentation of data.

**How to Enhance my code**

Improving error handling and input validation will help me to strengthen
and secure the application by means of better coding. The application
now expects users to submit legitimate numerical inputs; thus, including
tests for incorrect or unexpected inputs---such as negative numbers or
non-numeric characters---would help to avoid possible mistakes and
crashes. Furthermore, particularly when managing big datasets,
streamlining the financial computations by using more effective data
structures or algorithms might enhance performance. Using
object-oriented programming (OOP) ideas, such as creating specialized
classes for investment data and computations, could enhance the code\'s
modularity, reusability, and maintainability. Including unit testing at
last would assist to guarantee the correctness of financial calculations
and identify any problems early on, thereby enhancing the dependability
of the software. These improvements would not only increase security and
efficiency but also make the software more scalable and flexible for
future developments.

**The challenging code I found**

Implementing the financial computations for compound interest and making
sure the output properly represented year-end balances proved to be
among the toughest parts of this project. Particularly when handling
loops and guaranteeing exact rounding of decimal numbers, managing the
logic for interest computations with and without monthly deposits
required extreme attention to detail. I divided up the issue into
smaller pieces, utilizing functions to divide many computations, and
double-checked every step with sample data in order to get above these
obstacles. Debugging was also crucial in improving the reasoning; I
tracked changing values and found computation mistakes using print
statements.

Online programming tools include C++ documentation, Stack Overflow, and
GeeksforGeeks for troubleshooting and best practices, which helped me to
build my support network. Interacting with coding groups and forums
where developers provide ideas on financial applications also gave me
value. I want to add more methodical debugging tools, like a debugger
tool, and increase my understanding of algorithm optimization to manage
difficult computations more effectively going forward.

**The transferable skills from the project**

This project gave me various useful abilities that will be very relevant
for future projects and courses of study. First, any programming-related
project will depend on my capacity to produce clear and maintainable,
legible C++ code, therefore guaranteeing simplicity and maintainability.
Working with user input and completing financial computations has
sharpened my problem-solving abilities, which will help data analysis,
scientific computing, and other numerical uses. My skill in debugging
and troubleshooting will also enable me to quickly find and fix problems
in future coding assignments. Furthermore, adaptable across many
programming languages, the project strengthened my knowledge of basic
programming ideas such as loops, functions, and data validation. At
last, my focus on user-friendly output formatting and program
documentation will help me to create programs that give usability and
clear result communication first priority, thus improving the
professionalism and accessibility of my work in any subject.

**How I made this program maintainable, readable, and adaptable**

I used best practices for code structure, instructions, and flexible
design to make sure the program was easy to manage, read, and change. I
made sure the C++ code I wrote was clean and well-organized by breaking
the program into functions that do specific things, like handling input,
doing math, and organizing output. This flexible method makes it easier
to change or update parts of the program without changing the whole
thing. I also assigned important names to variables and included clear
notes in the code to clarify the meaning of key parts. This made it
easier for future coders to understand and for me to understand again
when I go back to the project.

In order to enhance the program\'s flexibility and scalability, I
considered allowing users to dynamically input various funding factors,
rather than pre-defining them. Because it is so flexible, the program
can handle a wide range of cash situations with only minor changes.
Making sure that input is accurate and errors are handled correctly also
helps the program be easier to manage by lowering the risk of crashes
and speeding up fixing. All of these practices make the program last
longer and be easier to use. This makes it easier to improve and add to
in later versions.

**Conclusion**

I would say that the Airgead Banking Project was a fantastic way to
learn and improve my computer skills, especially in C++. It taught me
basic computer skills that I could use to solve real-world financial
problems while making sure the code was easy to read, update, and
change. I got better at writing organized and well-documented code,
handling user input quickly, and making clear financial records through
this project. I was able to make complicated financial sums work, but I
also saw things that could be done better, like making sure that data is
correct, making programs run faster, and using object-oriented concepts.
Getting through tough problems in interest formulas helped me become a
better problem-solver and taught me how important it is to use outside
tools, like online computer groups, to fix mistakes. The skills I
learned from this project, like organized code, testing, and designing
programs with users in mind, will help me a lot in school and in my
career as a software developer. By putting scale, freedom, and good code
practices at the top of my list of priorities, I have set myself up to
make future apps that are more reliable and efficient.
